# Ocean-Warming-and-Fish-Migration

This was a collaboration with my research partner Xinyi Cheng for the 2020 Mathematical Contest in Modeling. I took the lead on the statistical analysis and geospatial data visualization, and Xinyi took the lead on the paper writing, but both parts were collaborative. In this model, we combined analysis on two separate data sets: one for ocean temperature over time at discrete geographic coordinates, and the other for herring and mackerel catch data at a single point in time, also at discrete geographic coordinates (though at different coordinates from the first data set, which presented a data formatting and matching issue that we solved). After running a multiple linear model on the longitudinal ocean temperature data to predict ocean temperature up until the year 2050, we then used these predicted values over the geographic space as parameters for our second model. The second model that we created assumes a negative quadratic relationship between ocean temperature and mackerel and herring populations, as presented in the shape of the data and through a least squares method of model selection. After applying this model with different coefficients for each discrete latitude and longitude sector, we were able to predict the herring and mackerel catch volume until the year 2050 based on the changes in ocean temperature. We visualized these predictions in a geographic map using GIS and R, and were able to make broad scope analysis from these visualizations, such as the fact that the fish populations for Mackerel are going to move East to West around the British Isle, but that Herring will likely move too far north for any lucrative fishing ventures by the year 2050. These insights are applicable for Scottish fisheries in that they might consider switching their catch from Herring to Mackerel, and relocate to the North East, such as in Aberdeen or Orkney, if possible.
